This repo contains some implementations of MML2DS (Minimum Message Length Two Dimensional Segmenter) criterion. MML2DS is a powerful technique for road condition data analysis developed at the Nottingham Transportation Engineering Centre (NTEC),  University of Nottingham.  The criterion analyses condition data sets by simultaneously identifying true trends in condition progression, the position in time and space of maintenance interventions, longitudinal segments within links, and the error likelihood of each measurement. This is done in an unsupervised manner via classification and regression models based on the Minimum Message Metric (MML - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_message_length).  Use of MML, however, often requires an exhaustive comparison of all possible models, which naturally raises considerable search--control issues. This is precisely the case with the MMML2DS approach.  MML2DS analysis requires the generation and testing of ‘progression groups’ within a given data set, and the resulting computational explosion is further compounded by the necessary interaction between the classification and regression models. 
This implantation includes an efficient meta-analytic approach for controlling the generation of progression groups, which considerably reduces the search space prior to the application of MML2DS.  The indications are that this approach can be applied to other techniques besides MML2DS.

Some bits of the code require other modules to work, but these cannot be uploaded here for confidentiality reasons. However, the central ideas can be gleaned without those modules.
